So we've seen the information regarding
ReplaySubject, but wait, there's another solution.
So at first glance ReplaySubject
seems like the perfect solution.
However, for our totals
we really don't need to replay the previous totals.
We're really only interested in the latest total,
the last computed total.
I'm only interested in the last event or the last message.
So in the scenario of the meeting,
sorry, I'm late to the meeting.
What is the latest cart total?
I really don't care about all the intermediate discussions.
What's the latest cart total?
A similar thing,
when you make it up to the checkout counter at the store.
You want to find out what's the latest price
or what's the total price that you need to pay.
You really don't care about the intermediate prices.
Only the latest price.
We can make use of a BehaviorSubject.
So a BehaviorSubject is a subclass of subject.
It has a notion of a current value
and it stores the latest message or event
and sends it to new subscribers.
So similar, sorry, I'm late to the meeting,
but what's the latest cart total?
And then here's some good information from the docs.
So BehaviorSubjects are useful
for representing values over time.
For instance, an event stream of birthdays is a subject
but the stream of a person's age would be a BehaviorSubject.
So using that analogy, a stream of a person's age.
So you meet a young person.
Hey, how old are you?
14, 17, 18, okay, great.
That's the only value you need.
You only need to know their latest age or their current age.
You really don't care about their age of five, three or two,
only their latest age.
So that's the idea of using a BehaviorSubject one use case.
And so we'll use a use case here for our shopping cart.
We really don't care about the
intermediate totals of our shopping cart.
We simply need to know the latest value
of our shopping cart.
So the total quantity and the total price.
And if you want to see the docs here for BehaviorSubject,
you can use the link on the slide.
It'll redirect you to the official documentation.
Alrighty, so looking at an example here
with this BehaviorSubject
so we have this CartService, total price
and note here its a BehaviorSubject.
We have our cart status component, they'll do a subscribe.
We'll have these events come across A and B,
and then we have our checkout component,
that'll want you to do a subscribe,
and then they'll simply get the latest cart total
or they'll receive the latest message
or event that happened.
They won't get all previous ones, simply the latest value.
And of course, they'll get all new events
coming in the future,
but that's the key here, that the BehaviorSubject,
basically just keeps a buffer of the most recent value
that we'll send.
So here's an example of using a BehaviorSubject.
So instead of a normal subject or a ReplaySubject
you simply make yourself BehaviorSubject.
And then the constructor here,
you specify the initial value,
so the total prize will be zero,
the total quantity will be zero.
And we'll actually use this BehaviorSubject
in our CartService.
So once it gets to the coding videos, then you'll see
we'll simply go through where we replaced subject
with BehaviorSubject.
And we'll see how this works
in our application once it's running.
And if you'd like to get more details on BehaviorSubject,
just simply check out the online docs at the link here,
it'll redirect you to the official page.
All right, let's just kind of recap the terms
that we've just covered here.
So subject does not keep a buffer of the previous events.
The subscriber will only receive new events
after they subscribed.
So we've used subject
and our previous examples as far as our coding.
So if you subscribed late,
you simply get the new events after subscribing.
So for ReplaySubject,
it has a buffer of all previous events.
once subscribed, the subscriber receives a replay
of all previous events.
So here at the bottom, they get A and B because of replay,
and then they also get the new messages in the future.
And so for this scenario, like,
hey, we're recording the meeting
and this is everything that you missed.
And then for BehaviorSubject
it has a buffer of the last event.
So once subscribe,
subscribers receive the latest event prior to subscribing.
So whatever the latest item is
that's the one that they'll get.
So similar to the example I used for age
you'll simply get the latest age of the person
or for like a shopping cart
you'll get the latest total quantity
or the latest total price.
And now here are all the three subjects placed
on one slide together.
So you can kind of just review them
and get a good feel for what they're about.
All right, so let's look at development process for this.
In step one, we'll make updates for checkout component.
We'll inject the CartService into the checkout component
and in the ngOnit method, we'll call a new method,
review card details.
And then we'll add the code here for that new method,
reviewCartDetails.
And then finally we'll make some updates in our CartService
or we'll change subject to BehaviorSubject.
In step 1.1, we'll inject the CartService
into the checkout form.
So we use the same approach that we've used before
for injecting items here.
So we simply inject the CartService.
And then step 1.2
in the ngOnit method, we'll call reviewCartDetails.
So this is a new method that we're going to create.
So we'll just put a call for it right here.
And then in step 1.3, we actually write the code
for the new method, reviewCartDetails.
So here's this new method.
And all we're doing here is really just subscribing.
So we subscribe to the total quantity
and then we also subscribe to the total price.
So we have two subscription set up
to listen to events off of those two different subjects.
And then in step 2.1 we're going to change the subject
to a BehaviorSubject.
So remember, BehaviorSubject is a subclass of subject
and then we'll give it the initial value
total price of zero and total quantity of zero.
Okay, so this looks pretty good.
Let's go ahead and move into the next video
and let's start writing some code.